SHUMET MESFIN
Short Answer


1. what is Data?
         Data is a collection of factual information. It is raw, unprocessed information that has been collected over a period of time.
2.       what is Information?
             Information is the process that data goes through to become more understandable and meaningful.

3.      what is Database(DB)?
          A database (DB) is a repository of data from which information can be retrieved. The data can be organized according to the needs of the user or the purposes for which it was gathered. 

4.      What is the Relation Database Management System(RDBMS)?
           A Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) is a set of software for the management and organization of databases which uses related   tables.

5.      Define the importance of Relation Database Management System(RDBMS)?
            Relational Database Management Systems(RDBMS) is a computer software that manages, organize, and protect data. RDBMSs are used to store and retrieve large amounts of information in a database. They are the backbone of many organizations because they can be relied on to keep track of the data that is entered or generated by these organizations.

6.     As we all know that there are Two types of Database. Relational Database(SQL) AND Non-Relational DB(NO sql). what is the difference between them?
        Relational databases store data in tables with rows and columns. A relational database is a collection of tables, each containing a number of rows and columns. Non-relational databases are also called NoSQL. They store data as large documents (e.g., JSON). The documents in the database are not related to each other by any logical structure, such as primary key or foreign key relationships.
7. 	List examples of Relation Database Management System(RDBMS)?
             Examples of RDBMS include MySQL, Oracle, Microsoft Access.
8.       List examples of Non-Relational DB(Nosql)? 
          Non-relational databases are databases that don't use tables. This allows for a greater level of flexibility when storing information. Some examples of non-relational databases are document stores, key-value stores, graph databases and column stores.

9.       Define and Describe is Structured Query Language(SQL)?
             Structured Query Language, or SQL, is a programming language that is used to communicate with databases. With SQL you can create, read and update data in tables stored in the database.

10.       List and Describe each of the different subsets of SQL(Mean DDL, DML, DCL, TCL)?
               The four subsets of SQL are DDL (Data Definition Language), DML (Data Manipulation Language), DCL (Data Control Language), and TCL (Transaction Control Language).
11.      what is table in Database(DB)?
               Tables are the basic unit of a database, which holds data in rows and columns. Data is stored in cells, which are referenced by coordinates such as column letter and row number.
12.     what is column and Row(tuples) in table?
               The column is the vertical line of a table. The row is the horizontal line of a table. Columns and rows are used to organize data in tables.


